In this lecture we're going to talk about runnable lambdas of the chaining operation that we have been
talking about.
And once again, our requirement keeps on changing every single time.
And we have to make sure that based on our requirement, we have to align our application and based
on our requirement and based on our alignment, the complexity of the application as well changes.
So for instance, as you can see in our last lecture while we were trying to do the chaining operation
like parallel chaining operation, we used a llama model.
And also we used a queuing model to perform operations.
So we used two models to perform these operation and we executed them in parallel.
But what if we don't want to use this llama model unless until a certain condition is met?
So how do we actually make that happen?
Well, we need to have some condition to ensure that this is how I need to run this particular chain.
We need to have some decision to make that happen.
And for that we need to write some Python code to make that happen.
And again, that Python code needs to be executed like an if else condition to call a specific, uh,
large language model.
And then we need to pass that large language model as a parameter for this chain, and then perform
the operation, which is going to be very, very complex unless until you do that hand coding.
But instead you can actually use what is called as the runnable lambdas to make that happen.
And based on its name, you can easily assume that that is what this, uh, runnable lambda is going
to basically do.
So, for instance, if you remember, in this particular code, we were, uh, doing this, let's just
go up a bit over here chaining multiple chains.
We said, what is the advantage of running the AI model in local machine?
And also we told in the second chain that just analyze the response and get me the headings from this
particular response.
Right.
This is another chain that we had got.
And then we uh we got the response over here.
So what if my my requirement is this where the first response of a chain that we are getting over here.
If it has the length of more than 300, which means it is a bigger token value, and I need to use a
specific large language model.
And if it is less than 300 token or 300 character, for instance, then I have to use another large
language model, maybe a smaller version of large language model, because the larger, bigger, larger
language model is not even required for this kind of operation.
So if I think that is my business case that I wanted to go with, then how do I actually do that?
Well, you can do it using this runnable lambda.
So you see that user inputs the first prompt, which is going to be what is the advantage of running
the AI in the local machine.
It goes to the model in the first chain of the runnable.
And then it gets you the response.
But that particular response that you are getting over here now needs to be deciding which particular
large language model that you need to be running with.
Because if it is less than 300, so probably you don't even need to run this in a bigger, larger language
model.
You maybe find the queue in itself so you can run it over here.
But if you want to run, if the response is more than 300, then you can run in the llama model.
And in order for making this kind of decisions, we are going to be using this runnable lambda to make
that happen.
And that is exactly what we are going to be doing over here.
So let me just add this diagram for your detailed discussion that we have been doing, so that next
time, while you read through this documentation, you will also know what we have.
We have, uh, spoken in this particular discussion.
So I'm going to add a markdown.
I'm going to add this particular image over here.
Uh there we go.
And yeah, that's the image that we have got over here.
And probably I need to add one more markdown and I'm going to say uh.
Runnable Lambda.
Cool.
And now let's try to write the code and we will see how we can actually achieve that.
So in order for doing that I'm going to once again going to copy the exact same code that we discussed
earlier.
Just this guy.
And I'll copy this.
And I'm going to come all the way down and I'm going to paste it over here.
Right.
So this is the chat prompt template.
And we also have got the string output over here.
And we also need to call the Lang chain core dot Runnables.
Import a runnable lambda which is going to be all the way here.
And then I'm going to run them both in parallel.
So let's see how we can achieve that.
So this is the first chain that we have got over here.
And this is the response going to be coming up for me from this particular uh this particular chain.
And then we're going to do it over here.
So these things are fine.
But this is the place where we need to do the decision to see what exactly is going to happen based
on our response that we're doing.
So I'm going to write a small function here, uh, using uh, Python.
So I'm going to say choose LM for that matter.
Uh, and I'm going to say response.
So based on the response that you are going to be choosing.
So I'm going to say response maybe response, uh, text is equal to I'm going to say string because
I need to convert the response to the string type over here.
And I'm going to say if the length of the, uh, if the length of this particular response text, if
it is greater than 300, if you have that, then you need to, uh, run this in the olama for that matter,
which is going to be LM two.
You remember, the LM two is the olama.
Um, sorry, the the llama 3.2 language model.
So that is what I'm using over here.
So I'm going to say lemma two.
Uh I'm sorry over here.
If not you can just return me LM, which means the model that we are currently using.
So that is this method really going to do.
And I'm also going to say, uh, LM selector for that matter.
And I'm going to say runnable lambda.
This is the place where I'm going to be calling our runnable lambda and see the beauty of this runnable
lambda.
Basically this is going to accept this choose LM method.
So basically using this runnable lambda you can actually execute an Python function over here or Python
code Python code over here.
So that you could able to run them in the pipeline while you are actually executing, which is the chaining
operation that you are really doing.
So that is the major power of this runnable lambda itself.
And now the rest of the code just remains pretty much exactly the same, because we don't really have
to make any changes over there.
But over here, what I'm going to do is instead of the LM that we are passing in the chain two, I'm
going to be calling the LM selector.
Look at that.
So that is the power which I'm talking about LM selector.
So while I call LM selector over here based on the response, the selector is going to call the runnable
lambda.
And this runnable lambda is going to pass the response which is going to be coming up for us over there.
And then it is going to perform the rest of the operation for me.
And then it's choosing which lambda, which large language model that we need to select.
And then it is going to run that one.
Look at that.
So so easy right.
Like this is how you do select the large language model using the runnable lambda because it has the
ability to run a Python code.
Cool.
So now let's try to run this code and see what's going to happen.
So essentially the things are just pretty much exactly the same that we have did over there.
And I'm sure the response is going to be more than I mean, the response text is more than 300.
So it is going to run for the first time in the, uh, LM, which is the llama 3.2 model.
So now if I just go to my Safari browser, and if I go and go to the.
Yeah, to the Lang Smith, you see that this time over here.
See that the first time it executed, uh, it is executing on the Q1 model, which is correct.
So what is the advantage of running in local machine.
So it gives this particular response.
And then we are giving a decision over here.
Analyze the response.
Get me just the heading of this particular response.
What is the advantage of this particular thing.
Then it is choosing the llama theta two model for us over here.
Look at that.
So that is correct.
So it is using the llama 3.2 because because we know that the the text is more than 300in length.
But what if I modify this time?
Let's say less than 300?
For that matter, right?
We know it is more than 300, but I'm just trying to make it less than 300 so that I don't want to execute
this llama two.
Uh, which is the all the llama 3.2 model.
But I wanted to run the model.
So let's see what is really going to happen this time.
So if I do execute it this time, what essentially I'm looking for is I will I will see both of these
in Q1 model instead of running in the llama 3.2 model.
There we go.
It got executed and we have this runnable sequence execution complete.
Look at that.
So we have two of them both in Q1 model this time.
So this is how we can say that we can choose or run a Python code while running in the chaining operation.
While there is a runnable happening in this chain, you can run a Python code in between using this
runnable lambda.
That is the power of this runnable lambda itself.